A Bond for Deed is simply a contract to deliver a deed in the future after certain 
conditions are met. In it's simplest form it's just like any other contract to 
purchase...when you pay the money, the Seller gives you the deed.  A BfD can be 
much more complicated though. For instance, you can use them to set up an an 
installment sale where the Buyer moves in and makes a monthly payment, pays taxes 
etc. After a period of time the property is paid for and the deed (usually held in escrow 
by a third party) is delivered. 

A BfD can be very useful if used properly becuase it gives you a lot of flexibility in the 
deal. The bad news is that it's very often used to unload properties that can't be sold 
for one reason or another (like a bad title or environmental problems) or to sell a 
property to a Buyer who cannot get a mortgage (usually leading to the Buyer losing his 
shirt when he defaults on the payments). 

Horror story:  Once upon a time I searched the title (for a title insurance company) to a 
house in a little town in Eastern Connecticut. It was a single family home on a small lot,  
50' by 100'. The home was supposedly owned by two individuals who were in the 
process of refinancng it.  A little research turned up a somewhat differemt picture.

The property was in a little mill town where a large corporation (you would recognize 
the name) had a couple of hundred acres of wood land and a wood processing plant. 
The company had built 3 or 4 houses near the factory for it's employees. The plant 
shut down and the company moved its operation out of state. 

The company put "Buyers" in the homes under 10 year Bond For Deed agreements 
which provided that the Buyers could move in and make a monthly payment for 10 
years, at  which time, if they made all the payments, they would get a deed. They had 
the option of paying off early which was what these owners thought they were doing 
by 'refinancing".

Problem was, the BfD provided that the company didn't have to deliver the deed until 
the subdivision of their poperty into individual lots was approved by the Town Planning 
and Zoning Commission. The company never bothered to do that and, better yet, 
about a year before I did the search, the Town had instituted 2 acre minimum lot sizes. 

The "Buyers" were living in homes that they thought they "owned", and had made, at 
that time, 8 years worth of payments.  The house was located on a 200 acre 
unsubdivided parcel of land, subdivision had never been approved (and couldn't be 
approved for the little lots) and the corporation was long gone. 

Moral to the story is: never get into a BfD deal without some serious legal advice. 

