

Les Marsden is best known (if at all) for his long-time work in recreating the many 
Marx Brothers.  It all began in a high-school talent show when he decided to play Harpo 
because he'd get to wear a blond wig and chase girls. Shortly before Mr. Marsden's college 
graduation, a professor suggested to the 21-year-old that he create a showpiece to 
demonstrate everything he had learned in school.  After realizing that such limitation 
would only produce a very tiny play, Mr. Marsden instead decided to write a one-man show 
on the life and times of Harpo Marx.   After initial refusals from Harpo's widow Susan to 
allow such a show, Mr. Marsden won her blessing and full cooperation.  A Night at Harpo's 
was honored at its 1978 premiere during the American College Theatre Festival and 
immediately went on to professional bookings in California, Las Vegas and Scotland's 
Edinburgh Festival.   After a lengthy engagement in 1984 at the Cast Theatre in Los 
Angeles1 Mr. Marsden rettred A Night at Harpo's and in the ensuing years has given 
only two performances of the show: at Burt Reynolds' Jupiter (Florida) Theatre in 
April of 1989 and at Lucille Lortel's Westport, CT White Barn Theatre in August of 1993.

Mr. Marsden has been honored with a Laurence Olivier Award nomination (Comedy 
performance of the Year) as well as a London Critics' Award nomination (Best Actor) 
for his dual performance as Chico and Harpo in Arthur Marx and Robert Fisher's 
Groucho: A Life in Revue, a role created specifically for him by the authors.  
Prior to its run on London's West End, Groucho was successfully produced in New York 
at the celebrated Lucille Lortel Theatre and all across North America.  More recently, 
Mr. Marsden was asked to play the title role, most notably in Boston where Groucho 
became the longest running hit of the '90-'91 season.   He was seen at the Goodspeed 
Opera House last fall as The Professor (Harpo) in Animal Crackers, for which he was 
named Best Actor in a Musical (1992) in Connecticut's Best of the Arts Awards, a 
singular honor in light of the fact that he neither speaks nor sings in the entire 
show!  He has performed Animal Crackers previously at The Paper Mill Playhouse in 
New Jersey, Boston's Huntington Theatre Company and Atlanta's Alliance Theatre.   
Many years ago, Mr. Marsden starred as Groucho In the Los Angeles production of the 
musical Minnie's Boys.  The ensuing rave notices he drew led Universal Studios to ask 
him to create a format in which he (as Groucho) could be employed by the famed studio 
tour. Seizing the opportunity for easy work, Mr. Marsden became (as Groucho) spokesman 
for the tour at press events and in the media, general bully to small children, VIP 
guide, and unfortunately, the bane of a great many tour visitors, most of whom ended 
their encounters with him regretting that they had not gone tc Knott's Berry Farm instead.   
In 1976, Mr. Marsden was privileged to meet Groucho at Mr. Marx's home and was delighted 
to find himself thoroughly insulted by the Master, who also gave the young imposter his 
imprimatur. Mr. Marsden is frequently asked to appear at special celebrity events as one, 
two, or all of the Marx Brothers; as recently as this past September and October (1993) 
he participated in a series of productions honoring Uta Hagen and the famed Herbert 
Berghof Studio in Manhattan with performers such as Donna McKechnie, Stiller and Meara, 
and Matthew Broderick, all directed by Charles Nelson Reilly.

Mr. Marsden has tried to keep some balance to his career, not wishing to be known only 
for the Marx Brothers. He was asked by James Kirkwood (A Chorus Line, P.S. Your Cat 
is Dead) to create the lead role in what sadly turned out to be the author's final work: 
Stage Stuck, which was directed by the legendary Charles Nelson Reilly.  He has appeared 
as Ali Hakim in Oklahoma! at the Paper Mill Playhouse and the Jupiter Theatre 
(Carbonell Award nomination.)   He played the starring role in the Los Angeles revival 
of the '30's Broadway comedy See My Lawyer.  He has been seen in leading in Laughter on 
the 23rd floor, Nine Armenians, The Front Page, Macbeth, The Cherry Orchard, The Merchant 
of Venice, The Little Foxes, The Visit, The Tiny Alice, Zorba, South Pacific, What The 
Butler Saw, and many others.

Television appearances have included General Hospital, The Bob Newhart Show, Matt 
Houston, Mel Brooks' The Nutt House, CBS Morning Show, Good Morning, America, The 
Joe Franklin Show, and numerous others.  In film, he's appeared in Kerouac Looking 
Back, A Legend in His Own Mind, Macbeth, and may been seen in the Robert Redford-directed 
film Quiz Show and Martial Law due out later this year. Commercials have included Tropicana 
Orange Juice, Cutter Insect Repellant, Pioneer Television Systems-Japan (as a badly 
dubbed Japanese-speaking Groucho!), Spicer's Wheat Twists, and most recently with Joan 
Rivers in a series of promos for the Joan Rivers Show, etc.

Mr. Marsden wrote both music and lyrics for the musical Telethon Fool, which was 
successfully produced in California.  A musically precocious brat, he was credentialled 
to teach the piano at age 11, wrote his first symphony at 13, and is proficient on all 
keyboards, concert grand harp, most brass instruments, the clarinet, cello, etc.  
A devotee of classical music and a minor authority on its development throughout the 
nineteenth century to present times, he's currently writing a new play for himself which 
views the world of symphonic music through the eyes and actions of a fairly nasty and 
obsessively opportunistic conductor.

Among Mr. Marsden's prized possessions are Harpo's own hand-made golf putter, a world 
War I vintage military helmet which was used in the Marx Brothers' 1933 film Duck Soup, 
and a 75-year-old harp which belonged to Harpo's musical mentor, the great harpist and 
teacher Mildred Dilling and upon which instrument Harpo played while studying with her. 
Mr. Marsden lives in the forested mountains of northeastern Pennsylvania with two dogs, 
a chinchilla, a ferret, several aquariums filled with fish, seven cats and his wife, 
who has patiently put up with and occasionally encouraged her husband's Marx nonsense 
for the past 18 years.





